README.md, before:

# Statistics Dashboard

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/europeana/statistics-dashboard.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/europeana/statistics-dashboard)

A visualisation utility for Europeana API data.

## Getting started

Make sure you have `node` version 14.7.8 and `npm` version 6.x:

    node --version
    npm --version

Get the `npm` dependencies:

    npm install

## Development environment

To facilitate containerisation the standard angular way of setting environment variables has been amended.

The standard `environment.ts` file exists under `src/app/environments/` but its contents define a function that can load variables from an external source, in this case `src/assets/env.js`.

The file `src/assets/env.js` should therefore be modified before starting the development server.

## Development server

Run `npm run start` for a dev server. Navigate to [http://localhost:4200/](http://localhost:4200/). The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Branches and Pull Requests

The main branch for development is the `develop` branch. But do NOT use this branch directly! Use a new branch for features/bugs and give it a descriptive name containing the user story code, like:

    feat/MET-1535-chart-styling
    bug/MET-3245-dashboard-not-loading

If you push a branch or commit to GitHub, it will automatically be tested by Travis CI. This will take about 5 mins and the results will be shown in GitHub, e.g. in the pull request page.

Make a pull request in GitHub for code review and merging.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Running unit tests

To run the unit tests in development (watch mode):

    npm run test:dev


### E2E tests (development)

To run the cypress tests:

    npm run test:e2e


To run the cypress tests in development (watch mode), start the dev server in one terminal window:

    npm run start:ci

...start the dev data server in another terminal window:

    npm run start:ci-data

...and then run cypress in another window:

    npm run cypress

### Accessibility tests (development)

To run the accessibility tests:

    npm run test:accessibility

## Deploy

We use jenkins to deploy. Make sure you can access [https://jenkins.eanadev.org/](https://jenkins.eanadev.org/) and use the following jobs:

- `statistics-dashboard-test`
- `statistics-dashboard-acceptance`

## Docker

To make a (parameterised) docker image of the app first run this command:

`npm run dist-localised`

and then copy the output of that command (from the dist directory) into a docker nginx image:

`docker build -t statistics-dashboard-app-image:version .`

The image runtime configuration is only set on container startup, so environment variables have to be passed when it's run.  Here they are passed using the project `env_file`:

`docker run -it --rm -d -p 8080:80  --env-file=env_file --name stats-dash statistics-dashboard-app-image:version`

As with the `src/assets/env.js` file for the development server, the `env_file` file should be adjusted before the nginx server is started.

Note: by default the docker image's nginx is configured to redirect the browser to the `https` protocol.  To run the image locally or in environments that haven't been configured for `https` the image can be run with the `nginx.conf` file mapped to a non-https variant by using the `-v` (volume) option, i.e.:

`docker run -it --rm -d -p 9090:80   --env-file=env_file  -v /PROJECT_PATH/nginx-local.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf --name stats-dash statistics-dashboard-app-image:version`

Commit message:

Move apply to bash script

README.md, after:

# Statistics Dashboard

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/europeana/statistics-dashboard.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/europeana/statistics-dashboard)

A visualisation utility for Europeana API data.

## Getting started

Make sure you have `node` version 14.7.8 and `npm` version 6.x:

    node --version
    npm --version

Get the `npm` dependencies:

    npm install

## Development environment

To facilitate containerisation the standard angular way of setting environment variables has been amended.

The standard `environment.ts` file exists under `src/app/environments/` but its contents define a function that can load variables from an external source, in this case `src/assets/env.js`.

The file `src/assets/env.js` should therefore be modified before starting the development server.

## Development server

Run `npm run start` for a dev server. Navigate to [http://localhost:4200/](http://localhost:4200/). The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Branches and Pull Requests

The main branch for development is the `develop` branch. But do NOT use this branch directly! Use a new branch for features/bugs and give it a descriptive name containing the user story code, like:

    feat/MET-1535-chart-styling
    bug/MET-3245-dashboard-not-loading

If you push a branch or commit to GitHub, it will automatically be tested by Travis CI. This will take about 5 mins and the results will be shown in GitHub, e.g. in the pull request page.

Make a pull request in GitHub for code review and merging.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Running unit tests

To run the unit tests in development (watch mode):

    npm run test:dev


### E2E tests (development)

To run the cypress tests:

    npm run test:e2e


To run the cypress tests in development (watch mode), start the dev server in one terminal window:

    npm run start:ci

...start the dev data server in another terminal window:

    npm run start:ci-data

...and then run cypress in another window:

    npm run cypress

### Accessibility tests (development)

To run the accessibility tests:

    npm run test:accessibility

## Deploy

We use jenkins to deploy. Make sure you can access [https://jenkins.eanadev.org/](https://jenkins.eanadev.org/) and use the following jobs:

- `statistics-dashboard-test`
- `statistics-dashboard-acceptance`

## Docker

To make a (parameterised) docker image of the app first run this command:

`npm run dist-localised`

and then copy the output of that command (from the dist directory) into a docker nginx image:

`docker build -t statistics-dashboard-app-image:version .`

The image runtime configuration is only set on container startup, so environment variables have to be passed when it's run.  Here they are passed using the project `env_file`:

`docker run -it --rm -d -p 8080:80  --env-file=deployment/env_file --name stats-dash statistics-dashboard-app-image:version`

As with the `src/assets/env.js` file for the development server, the `env_file` file should be adjusted before the nginx server is started.

Note: by default the docker image's nginx is configured to redirect the browser to the `https` protocol.  To run the image locally or in environments that haven't been configured for `https` the image can be run with the `nginx.conf` file mapped to a non-https variant by using the `-v` (volume) option, i.e.:

`docker run -it --rm -d -p 9090:80   --env-file=env_file  -v /PROJECT_PATH/nginx-local.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf --name stats-dash statistics-dashboard-app-image:version`

## Kubernetes

To deploy the app docker image to kubernetes you first need to make its `nginx.conf` file available as a `ConfigMap` with the command:

`kubectl create configmap statistics-dashboard-nginx-conf --from-file=/PROJECT_PATH/nginx-local.conf`

Another `ConfigMap` is needed to set the app environment.  This is generated together with the `deployment` object by running the command:

`kubectl apply -k deployment`

The deployment can then be made accessible with the commands:

`kubectl expose deployment/statistics-dashboard-ui-deployment --type="LoadBalancer" --port 8080`

and

`minikube tunnel`
